In the previous task, we established that a security engineer is responsible for an organization's security posture. In this task, we will expand on the general expectations that an organization has from a security engineer in order to help them achieve their goals in this role. Although loosely defined, a security engineer will often be responsible for the areas that follow.

1. Asset Management/Asset Inventory
One of the primary steps in ensuring an organization's security is to maintain an organization's asset inventory. In terms of cyber security, this will mean managing and maintaining an inventory of an organization's digital assets. Security engineers can only own an organization's security if they know what assets the organization has. They must also ensure that this asset inventory is regularly maintained and updated and includes all the required information about assets such as asset name, type, IP addresses, physical location, place in the network, applications running on an asset, access permissions (only within the organization or public-facing), and the asset owner details.

2. Security Policies
An organization needs robust security policies to maintain a sound security posture. A security engineer helps the organization create security policies based on established Security Principles. These policies are then implemented organization-wide, and the security engineer ensures that the implementation follows the letter and spirit of the policies. Sometimes, a need arises for granting exceptions to the security policies due to business needs. In such scenarios, the security engineer consults the security principles to allow or deny exceptions and suggest mitigating steps to minimize risks. 

3. Secure by Design
A security engineer ensures that the organization is secure by design. The engineer understands that the security posture receives the most Return on Investment (ROI) if it follows a secure-by-design philosophy. This means that the security engineer takes steps to implement a Secure Network Architecture (room coming soon!), ensures the organization's Windows, Linux, and Active Directory are hardened, and software development follows the Secure Software Development Lifecycle.

4. Security Assessment and Assurance
While securely designing the organization's network and infrastructure might be an excellent first step, a security engineer understands that their job is far from done after that. They understand that security is hard work that requires continuous effort. While a security engineer must ensure everything is done correctly, a compromise requires just one loophole to be successful. To mitigate risks from a continuously evolving threat landscape, a security engineer plans to conduct regular security assessments, audits, and red-teaming and purple-teaming exercises to continuously improve the security posture. While security engineers might not be performing assessments and audits themselves, they are primarily involved in helping schedule these activities, creating Request for Quotations (RFQs) for external parties to perform these activities, and helping prioritize and implement the findings from them.

{anothe responsibilities}

As discussed previously, the security engineer's role is often loosely defined and broad-based. In certain organizations, a security engineer might need to take up some additional responsibilities to help other teams, which we will cover in this task.

1. Managing Security Tooling
A security engineer might sometimes be required to configure or fine-tune security tools such as SIEMs, Firewalls, WAFs, EDRs, and more. In some organizations, that might also be the primary responsibility of a security engineer. In such a role, a security engineer might also be making decisions or providing input to decision-makers about tools to procure based on the organization's requirements and the engineer's assessments of competitive tools.

2. Tabletop Exercises
Tabletop exercises are often conducted to gauge the operational readiness of an organization from a security point of view. Certain scenarios are identified to be exercised, and security team members must explain their respective roles in the scenarios under discussion. For example, a scenario might include the compromise of an endpoint device through a phishing email. All the team members will then explain their respective steps per the organization's playbooks. The security engineer is sometimes required to conduct these exercises.

3. Disaster Recovery and Crisis Management
A robust security posture requires organizations to plan for untoward incidents, disasters, or crises. In any such scenario, the top priority of the executive management is to maintain business continuity. A security engineer might be involved in disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management planning as part of the different compliance frameworks and the organization's internal policies. The role of a security engineer in these areas might differ depending on the organization.
